
binMeta project

This is the preliminary version of a Java project having as main aim of collecting in one unique 
Java package several meta-heuristic searches that have been proposed over the last years for the 
solution of combinatorial optimization problems.

The solutions to the optimization problems are represented via the "immutable" objects of the 
Data class, where the representation is essentially given by a bit string. Data objects can 
be grouped together by using a Memory object, which is supposed to automatically manage situations
where the limit on storage capacity is reached, by performing different kinds of algorithms 
for the selection of the "victims" to be removed.

At this stage of development, we only consider combinatorial optimization problems without 
constraints, so that they can be represented by defining only the corresponding objective function.
All optimization problems are supposed to be represented by subclasses of the abstract class named 
Objective. Only three simple objectives are currently implemented: BitCounter, ColorPartition,
and Fermat.

The meta-heuristic searches are supposed to inherit from the abstract class named "binMeta" (the
same name as for the Java project). Only two meta-heuristic searches are currently implemented:
- RandomWalk, it simply searches in the neighbourhood of a given initial solution by taking 
  completely random steps;
- WolfSearch, it is inspired by the hunting behavior of wolves (see file REFS for the main 
  reference). 

Only exception to the rule: the LocalOpt class inherits from bitMeta even if it does not implement
a meta-heuristic search. It rather implements a method for local optimization that is based on
the idea to perform the modifications on the current solution that allow us to obtain the
best improvement on the objective function value. As all local searches, this method is likely
to get stuck at local optima; however, it can be useful in the implementation of other 
meta-heuristic searches (the current implementation of WolfSearch is one example).

This Java project was started with aim to collect the best implementations given by the students 
of the University of Rennes1 that have attended some of my courses. The following terminology
is used to make reference to such implementations:
-> the mention "proposed by" means that the student has simply proposed the implementation of 
   a method or class, but the implementation is not his/hers.
-> the mention "initial version coded by" means that the student has submitted a good implementation
   of the method or the class, but changes have been subsequently performed (may be simply for
   compatibility with the development of other classes).
-> the mention "coded by" means that the code for the method or the class is the one provided by
   the student, with (if any) very light changes.
The implementations are mainly collected from the projects of the course on "Multi-threading Operating
Systems" (Master in Computer Science, ISTIC, University of Rennes1). For their course projects, 
different meta-heuristic search have been assigned to the students in the two academic year 2019-20 
and 2020-21. Starting from the second semester of the academic year 2020-21, this Java project is also 
followed by a group of Master students (first year) of the MIAGE teaching program at ISTIC, University 
of Rennes1, over a period covering 3 months.

When a commit holds the name of a course, this indicates that it represents the last commit related
to the work performed in the framework of that course, together with the academic year. 

When a commit holds the name of a conference (or any other scientific publication), this indicates 
that the corresponding version of the package was used for the computational experiments presented
in that scientific publication.

And to end: why "binMeta"? The "bin" part can be interpreted as "binary", which is important
to point out in this project because all the implemented meta-heuristic searches are supposed 
to directly work with a binary representations of the data. Moreover, if you know some German, 
the "bin" may remind you of "(ich) bin" (I am), followed by "Meta", which recalls the name 
"meta-heuristic", but it can be interpreted as something beyond the simple implementation of 
one meta-heuristic search.

January 3rd, 2021

Antonio Mucherino

